Darling Drusilla...
I have existed
from the morning of the world...
...and I shall exist until the last star
falls from the heavens.
Although I have taken the
form of Caius Caligula...
I am all men as I
am no man and so...
...I am a god.
What's it like with Marcellus?
What's 'what' like?
He's so fat.
He's disgusting.
He's not.
He's only large.
But tiny where it counts.
How do you know?
I saw him at the baths.
Poor, poor Drusilla.
You are vile!
- Halt!
- Message for the Prince.
- Identify yourself.
- Macro.
Password?
Justice.
Prince?
Forgive me, Prince.
The Emperor commands you
to wait upon him.
What does he want?
A last look at you perhaps.
He is 77.
May he live forever!
How is Ennia?
My wife lives only for the day
she can see you again, Prince.
Wait outside.
What does all this mean?
Take care, Little-Boots.
Pray to Isis for me.
I'll follow you
as soon as I can.
I hate coming back here, Macro.
He's planning something.
You've nothing to fear.
I command the Praetorian guards.
With Tiberius,
there's always something to fear.
Be very careful of Nerva.
They say he can even tell
what you're thinking.
Nerva.
- Prince.
- Dear friend.
Ten years is a long
time for the Emperor...
to be hidden away.
I should feel a great deal happier...
...if he were back in
Rome where he belongs.
Tell me, how is the Emperor?
Old, like me.
I mean, how is his mood?
Like the weather.
Oh, the weather's good today.
Changeable.
I've heard that
during the last month...
seven of my colleagues in the
Senate have been put to death...
...for treason.
Nine to be exact.
Five of them cheated.
They killed themselves.
That wasn't playing fair.
Don't you agree, Nerva?
They were all good men.
If they were good men...
...how could their beloved Emperor
find them guilty?
You have a gift for logic, Prince.
Caligula.
- Beloved grandfather.
- Do your dance, boy!
- My dance?
- Yes.
The one you
delighted the army with...
when your father
made you its mascot.
Come on...
Little-Boots.
- I've forgotten it, Lord.
- Oh, dance for me.
Delight me.
Dance!
My little fishies.
Fishies.
Alright, my little fishies. Come in.
All of you.
Stop that!
Out, little fishies!
You've had enough for today.
- Caligula.
- Yes, my Lord?
Why do you say such monstrous things
about me at Rome?
I hear you often
pray for my death.
I don't, Lord, ever.
You do not?
By Heaven, Caesar,
I swear I do not.
You do not... yes...
...in public.
Never, Lord.
Remember this.
That I have let you live...
...so far.
My little fishies love me.
Innocents, you see.
I protect their innocence.
It is the least I can do.
For it is a foul world.
Away you now!
Nerva is scowling at us.
Help me, Nerva.
Help me transform this
young barbarian...
into a Roman Caesar.
There have been
three Roman Caesars.
Julius, Augustus and yourself.
Which do you want him to be?
The best.
That would be your
father, Augustus.
You see, Caligula,
I'm insulted to my face.
Nerva, dear friend.
Watch out for Macro
when I am dead.
I know.
- He hates me...
- ...because you are wise.
Because you are good.
So, when I am gone...
...watch out for Macro.
I have taken my precautions, Caesar.
Hmm. What might they be?
Heaven help Rome...
...when I'm gone.
I am old.
Yes, Lord, but you will live forever.
All my family are dead but you,
child Gemellus and that...
...Claudius, that uncle.
The others struck down by fate.
And it is fate, Little-Boots,
that rules us, not any god.
You are a god, Lord.
No, I'm not.
Not even when I am dead.
Julius Caesar and
Augustus Caesar...
They are gods.
So say the Senate...
and so the people
prefer to believe.
Such myths are useful.
Little-Boots...
just look at you.
Yes, Caesar?
I am nursing a viper...
...in Rome's bosom.
Uncle!
Caligula!
Do you think
this boy has been drinking?
- I think he has, Caesar.
- So do I. Macro!
- Yes, Lord?
- Bring him more wine.
And waste none.
Remove your bootlaces!
And what do they
say of me at Rome?
Oh, well, they need you,
Lord, and they miss you.
Most of my life I have given
to the Roman people.
I have fought.
I have given all.
- Aren't they lovely?
- Yes, Lord.
The satyrs are from Illyria.
And... uh...
This nymph...
...is from... Where are you from?
Britain, Lord.
Britain.
Speaking statues.
Yes, yes.
And they do more than speak.
They do...
You prefer nymphs to satyrs?
I like both, Lord.
One needs both.
Yes. To keep healthy.
Rome is a republic and
you and I are plain citizens.
More conviction!
That's it!
That's the best of my stallions.
Serve the state, Caligula...
...although the people
in it are wicked beasts.
But they love you, Lord.
Oh, no. No.
They fear me.
And that is much better.
I had no choice, you see.
No choice.
No choice?
All I wanted was private life.
I did not truly want
to become emperor,
but I had to.
Had to?
If someone else
had become emperor...
I would have been killed.
As you will be.
Will be?
Will be gra... gr...
"Will be", Grandfather?
Would be, if you were not my heir.
When Rome was just
a city and we were just citizens...
...known to one another.
Do you see?
Why, we were frugal, good,
disciplined and dignified!
The Romans I rule
are not what they were.
They lust.
They lust for power
and pleasure.
Money...
the wives of other men...
Oh, yes,
I am a true moralist.
And stern as any Cato.
Fate chose me to govern swine
in my old age...
I am become a swine-herd.
Do you think this boy has
drunk enough wine?
I think he's drunk enough, Lord.
So do I.
Now he is happy.
Homer. You would not know that,
you were educated
in army camps only.
You will know enough
to be a swine-herd.
Caesar? The Senate sends these
documents for your signature.
Of course.
The revised list of candidates
for the equestrian order.
I, Tiberius Caesar, command in the name
of the Senate and the People...
...of Rome.
Tax assessment, for Asia Minor,
Brescia and Gaul.
I, Tiberius Caesar,
command in the name...
...of the Senate and
the People of Rome.
Senator guilty of treason.
Every senator believes
himself to be a potential Caesar.
Therefore every senator
is guilty of treason.
In thought, if not in deed.
The Senate is the natural enemy
of any Caesar, Little-Boots.
Remember that.
Traitors. Look at them.
Traitors.
They offered to approve
any law I made before I made it.
I said...
'What if I go mad? What then?'
No answer.
They were born to be slaves,
Germanicus, never forget that.
I'm not Germanicus, Lord.
I'm his son, Caligula.
Yes. And your friend is Macro.
He serves you and
only you, Lord.
And his wife
is your friend, too.
Is she friendly in bed?
We must ask Macro that, Lord.
She seems friendly.
And your sister, Drusilla...
My sister is my sister, Lord.
I know everything
that is said and done.
And thought.
The setting sun...
...and the rising moon.
Gemellus...
Lovely boy. And too young
to betray me.
Well, perhaps not too young.
Yes. Kiss your old grandfather.
Yes. My last grandson.
I am your grandson, too, Caesar.
By adoption.
This is the last flesh of my flesh.
Poor boy.
What's to become of you?
He's like a brother to me, Lord.
Brother?
You know what a brother is in our family.
Brother kills a brother...
...who's killed his father...
...who's killed his son.
Fate! Drink, Caligula.
After you, dear brother.
Poor boy.
When I am gone...
...Caligula will kill you.
And then...
...someone will kill Caligula.
Unless...
Unless he is dead before I am.
You are looking not well at all.
I, Caligula Caesar...
...command in the name
of the Senate and the People of Rome.
A brother kills a brother,
a brother kills his father...
who's killed his son... Fate!
And then
someone must kill Caligula...
He's going to kill me.
Shh. You're safe. You're with me.
He's going to kill us.
Just the way he killed our father,
our mother and our brothers.
I am not going to die!
You won't.
You're his heir.
There is no one else.
Yes...
There's Gemellus...
...and Claudius.
Gemellus is too young.
Claudius is an idiot...
...and Tiberius is old.
You will be emperor.
Soon.
And you will be my queen.
You can't marry your sister.
You can in Egypt.
But we're in Rome.
And you're already promised.
I know... To Ennia.
It's only a bird.
- Prince?
- Hmm? What is it?
My wife.
Ennia.
Now you are a man, Caligula.
What are you going to do?
You must be the master
of your own destiny.
Take it... with both hands.
Cretins!
Why did you permit him to do it?
Bind his wrists.
You must not go,
you must not leave me.
You're my friend, my only friend.
I've lived too long, Tiberius,
I hate my life.
Leave us.
Both of you.
For a man to choose
the hour of his own death...
...is the closest he will ever come
to tricking fate.
And fate decrees
that when you die...
...Macro will kill me.
I'll arrest him
and have him executed.
You can't. He controls you.
Anyway, even with Macro dead...
...how could I go on
living with this...
...reptile?
You will respect my friend always,
won't you, reptile?
I've always respected him, Lord.
You hear?
Tiberius, you were wise once.
Ah, don't taunt me, I am old.
I've watched you grow
into a monster.
One by one, I've seen you
murder your family...
...your friends,
the noblest men in Rome.
- That is treason!
- No, it's the truth.
I am, and I always have been,
surrounded by enemies.
In my own family.
In the Senate.
You're cruel!
No, honest. Old men
can sometimes see the future.
So, from evils past...
...and evils yet to come...
...I now choose to escape.
So these are your precautions,
Nerva?
Nerva, what's it like?
Warm, no pain.
Just drifting away.
- Do you see her?
- Who?
The Goddess, Isis.
So, you're one of those
who believe...
Do you see her?
No.
Are you sure?
You're almost dead.
What's it like?
What's happening to you now?
Nothing.
You're lying.
You can see her.
I know you can.
What is she like?
No...
Nothing at all.
Just...
...sleep.
Liar.
Since Nerva died,
Tiberius has been half-paralyzed.
They say he's close to death.
Tiberius dies,
be worse for us.
You love the bastard.
Take that back!
Prince...
The physician Charicles.
How is the Emperor?
How long will he last?
Well, it could happen any moment.
But with care he might last
a year or so.
I can smell death.
But whose?
Don't worry.
He can do nothing without me.
So these poor
unfortunate creatures thought...
And where are they?
No, Macro.
He's planning something.
You'll be emperor soon.
You swear.
I sw...
I swear.
Leave.
Everyone leave.
Tiberius.
Caligula?
Lord?
Give me my ring.
No.
Yes.
You do not dare!
Prince.
Hail, Caesar.
I'd get everyone assembled in the hall.
For the announcement.
Gemellus?
Gemellus.
Hail, Caesar.
We are alone.
We must love each other.
Rest, Tiberius Caesar.
Hail, Caligula Caesar.
It's just like the dream.
It's only his mask.
You are Caesar now.
Caesar.
Caesar, Emperor of Rome.
Lord of the world.
Lord of the world...
I like this dream.
At the...
At the insistence of the Senate...
...and the People of Rome...
...I accept...
...humbly...
...the highest office
of our great republic.
Our great republic.
The onion. Where's the onion?
Give me the onion.
When our beloved Tiberius was dying...
- To the Tiber with Tiberius!
- Yes! Yes!
- Throw him in the river!
- Yes. Yes.
Tiberius... Throw him!
Throw him to the dogs!
Today we begin a new era.
I grant a general amnesty.
Hail! Hail! Hail!
Caesar. Caesar.
Caesar. Caesar. Caesar.
- Silence!
- Caesar. Caesar.
Caesar. Caesar. Caesar. Caesar.
- Silence!
- Caesar. Caesar.
Great Caesar is not finished.
As my fellow Consul...
...the Senate and the
People of Rome...
...have wisely chosen
my learned uncle Claudius.
Hail, Claudius!
Take your place
beside me, Claudius.
- Caesar Caligula...
- Take your place...
I mean Consul...
I herewith adopt as
my son and heir...
...the Prince Gemellus.
- Come forward, Prince.
- Hail, Gemellus!
From this moment,
all official oaths...
will contain the following phrase:..
'I will value neither my life,
nor the lives of my children...'
'...any more highly
than I do the Emperor.'
Hail. Hail. Hail.
'And of his sister, Drusilla.'
- Hail Drusilla.
- Hail Caligula.
We must be careful of him.
Oh, Claudius?
No, Gemellus.
Oh, yes. Gemellus.
Did you see their faces
when I told them
they had to swear
not only to me...
...but to you?!
They were appalled.
I do hope so.
But is it wise?
I can do...
...anything I like...
...to anyone.
Well, don't start with me!
Then who would you suggest?
Get out! Out!
Who?
Why not start with Macro?
- Macro?!
- Yes.
Before he controls you
as he controlled Tiberius.
Superb display, Macro.
Superb.
Fetch me Gemellus.
What, here?
Yes, here. Now.
- Charicles.
- My Lord?
Stand here.
I want a bonus for my guards.
Er, but Caesar,
that's not possible.
All things that happen
are possible, Longinus.
Make the impossible happen,
and it will be possible. Logical?
How, Caesar?
The deficit, you see, is...
Look, how much is my purse?
Well, Lord, that is as much
as you may require.
Oh, good.
Ah, Macro.
Would you stand over there?
Longinus, you here.
Here, Caesar.
Gemellus.
I want you to look at these
gentlemen very carefully.
Take your time and tell me...
...who killed our beloved Tiberius, hmm?
Who killed Tiberius?
He did!
Macro.
Murderer.
Arrest him.
In honour of your new commander,
Chaerea...
...ten gold pieces to every man.
Hail! Hail! Hail!
Chaerea, arrest Macro.
Guards, arrest Macro.
Don't you dare.
Forgive me, Caesar...
Ah, Chaerea.
Two senators beg to see you.
They have a dispute over land.
And await your judgment.
Well, bring them in.
Bring them in.
I am interested in
all that is Rome...
Even down to the length
of the toga.
Come now.
Caesar, I must complain
about the vow...
Give me the documents!
Guilty.
Thank you. Thank you, Caesar.
Don't thank me.
Justice must always
be impartial.
That is so, Chaerea. Is it not?
Oh yes, Caesar.
You may go.
Ennia.
You look beautiful.
Is it good for growing hair?
We'll be married soon.
The divorce will
only take a few days.
- I think we should move.
- Move? Where?
Alexandria, say.
To Egypt?
Yeah.
What do you think?
I'd hate to leave Rome.
I mean, the Senate...
No, no, Ennia. I am Rome.
Wherever I am, Rome is.
And there is the Senate
and the People of Rome.
You do make me laugh.
The way you say that!
- Ah, Longinus.
- Forgive us, Caesar.
Longinus, is it done?
- The Senate has sentenced him
to death. - Well, good.
The commission.
Chaerea, I now officially
appoint you...
...commander of my imperial guard.
But what about Macro?
What's happened?
Where is he?
He has been arrested
for treason.
That's impossible.
Caesar, you know
he worshipped you.
He made you.
Nobody made me.
I... I can't believe it.
What did he do?
Ennia...
I had to take my destiny,
with my own hands.
Guards.
Chaerea... She's to be banished.
- I love you.
- To Gaul.
- Lift.
- I love you!
Caligula. How could you do it?
He was your friend.
He would've done
anything for you.
Don't send me away!
I love you!
Caligula.
Now at least she doesn't
have to get a divorce.
But you still have to find
a suitable wife.
No.
I'm going to marry you.
You can't.
We're not Egyptians.
I know.
We are much more beautiful.
Rome is not Egypt.
And stop looking at yourself
like that.
Let's go to Egypt then.
You are a fool.
Caesar cannot be a fool.
But he's trying very hard.
Little-Boots...
They'll throw you in the Tiber...
...if you attempt
to move the government.
So, you are going to marry
a respectable Roman lady...
...of the senatorial class.
- No, I'm not.
- Yes, you are.
You've got to have an heir.
Who will kill me
when he grows up.
The priestesses of Isis are meeting
at my house tonight.
You want me
to marry one of them?
Yes.
No!
I wonder what I should wear.
When is the performance
for almighty Caesar?
Don't be disgusting.
But I'm being practical.
If I'm to choose a wife,
I want to see what I'm getting.
Logic.
Now that one looks
rather interesting.
Livia? Oh, she's taken.
She's to marry Proculus...
...one of your officers.
I'll send him to Spain.
She's a virgin. Very boring.
Not your style.
- That will be my wife.
- Oh, no. Not Caesonia.
Oh. You're impossible.
She's the most promiscuous
woman in Rome.
Perfect.
Caesonia's been divorced.
She's extravagant. Always in debt.
I want her.
But not for a wife.
Send her to me now.
No, Little-Boots.
I won't let you do it.
It wouldn't be wise.
Yes.
Such is the will of the Senate
and the People of Rome.
You were very convincing
as a priestess, Caesar.
And you...
...as a sacrificial lamb, Caesonia.
I told Caesonia that
I would marry her.
Don't do it.
Ah, but only after
she had borne me a son.
How will you ever know it's yours?
Don't worry.
I've got her very well guarded.
Then you can be sure
one of the guards will be the father.
They're all homosexuals
who've been castrated.
If only all Rome had just one neck.
Is that the officer that
Livia's going to marry?
Yes. Proculus.
Proculus.
- Longinus...
- Caesar?
...you see this young officer
over here? Proculus?
- Yeah?
- I want to...
Caligula Caesar,
Emperor of Rome.
- Hail!
And the lady Drusilla
and the lady Caesonia.
- Hail.
- Are we late?
- No, Caesar.
Do forgive us.
Was the ceremony beautiful?
The auguries good?
Yes, Caesar.
Splendid!
Come on, come on!
You are very gracious to come.
You are a Roman hero.
Caesar.
I shall now bestow...
...the special blessings
of almighty Caesar...
...upon this...
...happy union.
Which way is the
sacred marriage bed?
Ah. The kitchen!
Well, this will have to do.
See you later.
Little-Boots...!
I thought you didn't like virgins.
I've never known any.
That is correct, Caesonia?
And now for Caesar's wedding gift.
What a delicious bride.
Take off that robe.
Splendid.
Is she really a
virgin, Proculus?
Yes, Caesar.
One can never be quite sure.
Open your eyes, Livia.
Lucky girl. To lose one's virginity...
...to a direct descendant
of the goddess Venus.
I...
...Caligula Caesar...
...command...
Open your eyes, Proculus.
...command in the
name of the Senate...
Open them!
...the Senate...
...and the People of...
...Rome!
She really was a virgin!
Are you?
Well? Are you?
- No, Caesar.
- No?
Well, Isis won't like that.
One law for woman, one for man.
That's not fair.
Come on.
Off with your clothes!
Splendid.
I like your nice
bushy hair, Proculus.
No, Caesar. I beg you.
So sit up.
I think you were lying to me.
You're a virgin, too.
I...
...Caligula Caesar...
...command...
in the name of the Senate...
Open your eyes, Livia.
...and the People of Rome...
You see how I have exhausted myself
in order to make your wedding holy.
My blessings to you both.
Gemellus.
Caligula.
Jupiter loves me.
Drusilla.
- He's trying to kill me.
- Who, Little-Boots?
Gemellus.
I saw him. He ran away.
He wants me dead.
There, Little-Boots.
Now you'll be alright.
There...
Hail, Caesar!
- Hail.
- Hail, Caesar.
All hail Caesars beautiful horse,
Incitatus.
Hail the most honorable Incitatus.
Hail, Incitatus.
There's Gemellus over there.
Watch him.
Chop chop, dear uncle, chop chop.
I want your honest advice.
Should I make myself king of Rome?
King?
Well, but this is a republic, isn't it?
Very well, then.
I shall make myself
king of the republic.
But you're already greater
than any king, Caesar.
I am a god.
Or at least I will be when I'm dead.
Gemellus, try one of these morays.
Gemellus.
What's that smell?
What smell, Caesar?
What have you been taking?
Just a medicine.
But to ward off the fever.
Did you give him
medicine for the fever?
Well...
- Yes or no?
- No, lord, no.
Gemellus. Are you accusing your
sovereign of being a poisoner?
But I never accused you, Caesar.
You took an antidote
before coming to my table.
Which is tantamount to
accusing me of poisoning you.
That is logic! Is it not?
Caligula.
Chaerea.
Arrest Gemellus...
...for treason.
Guards. Take him away.
No, Caesar, please!
No!
As if there ever could be
an antidote against Caesar.
Drusilla.
Why are you so
concerned for him?
I'm not concerned for him.
- But for you.
- He knows about Tiberius.
He's a threat to me.
He's not. He's not
even your heir.
Caesonia now carries your child.
Gemellus will die.
You amateur.
Amateur?
And they weren't even poisoned.
Caesar!
Caesar?
- Well done!
- Thank you.
What will you do to her?
What she said was treason.
I decide what is treason, not you.
Dance.
- Dance?
- Yes.
And what about your son?
Show Incitatus your new dance.
My son...
...he will dance with you.
Music!
You are... beautiful...
...Drusilla...
...beautiful.
We are alone...
...alone, Drusilla.
He's going to kill me.
No.
The fever must break soon.
He's going to kill me.
- What if it doesn't?
- He's going to kill me.
He's going to kill me.
Drusilla.
He's going to kill...
...me.
Drusilla.
I tell you...
...I love you, Drusilla.
He's going to kill me.
- Where is my sister?
- She's coming.
I'm here, Little-Boots.
Drusilla...
...I'm dying.
You are not.
I must...
...make my will.
Don't talk. Sleep.
Longinus.
I want Longinus.
Take my horse to his own bed.
He's a monster.
Even so, it's better that
he doesn't die at this time.
- I don't see why.
- The people love him.
There could be a war, revolution,
civil chaos, if he dies.
It looks as if he's going
to die anyway.
Longinus?
You call for me, Caesar?
My will.
Herewith, to my beloved Drusilla...
...the Roman Empire...
...title...
...of Augusta...
...my little boots.
Little boo...
He's sleeping.
No, he's not.
Drusilla.
Why do I get angry with you?
Why do we always argue?
You can't help it.
We'll never quarrel again.
Oh, yes, we will.
Don't let me die.
My lady. You must not touch him.
The fever is contagious.
Sleep. You're safe now.
Drusilla's here.
I offer my life...
...if Jupiter will only spare
our beloved Emperor.
Jupiter accepts your offer.
Execute him.
The fever is breaking.
Do you hear that, Little-Boots?
You're going to live.
Drusilla tells me that
I've been neglecting my work.
So I report for duty.
Your signature
and seal is required, lord.
I, Caligula Caesar,
command in the name...
...of the Senate and
the People of Rome.
I, Caligula Caesar,
command in the name of the...
...Senate... and...
...People of Rome.
I, Caligula Caesar,
command in the name...
of the Senate and
the People of Rome.
I, Caligula Caesar,
command in the name...
of the Senate and
the People of Rome.
I, Caligula Caesar,
command in the name...
of the Senate and
the People of Rome.
I, Caligula Caesar,
command in the name...
of the Senate and
the People of Rome.
I, Caligula Caesar,
command in the name...
of the Senate and
the People of Rome.
I, Caligula Caesar,
command in the name...
of the Senate and
the People of Rome.
Rome, Rome, Caesar, Caesar,
Rome, Rome, rubbish,
rubbish, rubbish.
I, Caligula Caesar,
command in the name...
of the Senate and
the People of Rome.
No wonder life's so dull.
Yes, lord... oh... no,
lord... er lord...
Let's see if Proculus
can liven things up for us.
Proculus.
Do you know that his wife is
expecting her first child?
We're not quite sure
who the father is.
Him or... God.
Divine Caesar, please!
What have I done?
Why am I here?
Treason.
I've always been loyal to you.
That is your treason.
You're an honest man, Proculus,
which means a bad Roman.
Therefore you're a traitor.
Logical, hmm?
Now you must die like Gemellus.
Like all those who fail Rome.
Now slowly, very slowly.
I want him to feel death.
I want him to smell death.
Now, what does it
feel like, Proculus?
Can you see the
great goddess Isis?
What does she say?
Reptile!
Make a note of this.
I said slowly, you fool.
Lucky boy,
to have escaped me so easily.
Longinus. Reptile.
Cut off those and
send them to Livia...
...as a souvenir of their great love.
Caesar says, 'Cut them off.'
And now send the rest to Livia.
Curtain.
The child's head...
...has just appeared.
- Is he alive?
- Yes, Caesar.
My lords...
I'm now to be married
to Caesonia.
The mother of my son,
Caligula Germanicus.
Caligula. Caesonia.
Ring, ring... Give me the ring!
You are now wife, mother
and Empress of Rome.
It's a girl.
It is not a girl.
Did you not hear Caesar say?
I heard the voice of Caesar,
but your daughter did not.
I should've waited, shouldn't I?
There will be other children.
- Longinus.
- Caesar?
One month of free games
and a gold coin to every Roman...
...to celebrate the birth of my son.
My son...
...Julia Drusilla.
Julia Drusilla.
Drusilla? Drusilla?
Drusilla.
- It's the fever.
- Drusilla!
The fever.
Drusilla.
I'm here...
...it's your Little-Boots.
It's your Little-Boots.
Do something.
I am doing everything I...
I can, Caesar.
I swear.
But the fever must take its course.
My great Isis, save her.
Take me!
Caesar begs you,
oh mighty goddess.
Caesar.
Drusilla?
Get out. Get out.
Go on. Get out. Get out!
Get out. Go on.
Out. Out. Out!
Drusilla.
Almighty mother...
You...
I begged you...
Caesar begged you...
Drusilla!
We, Caius Caesar
Caligula, do decree...
...one month of public mourning...
...for our beloved sister, Drusilla.
During which time
anyone who laughs...
...bathes, dines with his
parents or children...
...or has intercourse,
will be sentenced to death.
Such is the will of the Senate
and the People of Rome.
Hello.
Come on, darling.
Empire is headless!
Caligula has fled.
Mnester restores the imperial head.
The slaves of Rome.
The people.
The army.
The tribune of the people.
The Senate.
And reigning supreme...
the Emperor.
Hail!
And I am...
the lady Drusilla, his sister.
Let's make love once again,
brother Mnester.
No. No!
Stop!
No. Stop!
Another drunk. Come on.
Do you have any news of him?
According to one report...
...he's gone to Egypt.
And according to
the other reports?
Well...
...to Greece...
...another, to Persia...
...to Carthage,
and another again, to Gaul.
And where do you think he is?
He could be anywhere.
No.
He's here in Rome.
He's testing us.
Where did he go?
Who is he?
Get off.
I have existed from the
morning of the world.
And I shall exist until the
last star falls from the night.
Although I have taken the form
of Caius Caligula...
...I am all men
as I am no man.
And therefore I am...
...a god.
I shall wait for the unanimous decision
of the Senate, Claudius.
All those who say aye...
...say 'Aye.'
Aye.
Aye!
- Aye.
Aye. Aye. Aye.
He's a god now.
Baa.
- Baa.
The period of
mourning is now over.
He's mad.
Enjoy yourself.
Take care.
Now the fun begins.
But... ah...
are they going to enjoy it as well?
I don't know.
Shall we ask them?
Longinus.
Ah, Longinus.
My financial wizard.
We have a question for you.
Who are the richest men in Rome?
Who?
Answer...
The pimps.
Question number two.
Who are the most lascivious sluts
in all of Rome?
Who?
Answer...
The senators' wives.
So, an imperial brothel.
A most logical way
to balance the state budget.
As you can see,
ladies and gentlemen...
...we have gone to great expense...
...to bring you the finest flesh
in our empire.
Five gold pieces.
Only five gold pieces for each
and every twenty minutes.
And that's a bargain.
Aren't they beautiful?
Superb!
The most lascivious ladies of the
Roman Empire have come today...
...to perform their patriotic
duties for all.
For a mere five gold pieces.
So give, that they will
remember you well.
Come on aboard the
imperial bordello...
...and you have your choice of
the finest flesh of the Empire...
Just five gold pieces for each
and every twenty minutes.
And that's a bargain...
...because most of the women here
are respectable, married ladies.
Senators' wives.
Whores of blameless reputation.
I'll have to work out
a special rate for you.
Greetings.
Flavia, come.
Don't waste time.
Our senators' wives are
not merely beautiful...
...like their husbands,
they are insatiable.
And for only five gold pieces,
to any one of you.
Enjoy the rights
of those who summon you.
Take their wives, use them,
abuse them.
Do as you will with them.
They are yours.
Just yours for only five...
Five gold pieces.
Hairy nipples!
Senator Marcellus.
Your wife will scare
our customers away.
Try hot walnuts.
Hey, you over there.
Don't stint yourselves.
The more that you give,
the more they will like it.
Come and enjoy the skills
perfected by our senators' ladies...
...while their husbands
slept in the Senate.
Only five gold pieces.
Five.
Senators' wives...
...whores of blameless reputation.
He's making prostitutes of
all our wives and daughters.
He humiliated the Senate
and offended the army.
That's why the people love him.
Longinus, you're not
having any fun.
Enjoy yourself.
What is your preference?
Everything and nothing, Caesar.
You can't have both
for the same price.
- He's provoking you.
- Only me? Huh.
He's mad.
He doesn't know what he's doing.
He knows what he's doing
perfectly well.
Give him enough rope...
and perhaps...
He'll hang us all.
We also have a few
very severe ladies here today.
You may punish them
or be punished by them.
Five gold pieces will buy you both.
Just five gold pieces.
Can't you stop plotting
for just a few moments?
Chaerea.
I hear you have a
taste for little boys.
- Is that not so?
- No, Caesar. Big boys.
- My soldiers.
- Are they ready?
Yes, Caesar.
Perfect.
We sail for Britain.
I'll meet you later. (?*)
And we are only a few hours march
from Rome.
And what new madness is this?
Mars tells me we will
enjoy a great victory.
- Ah, Chaerea.
- Caesar?
Are we prepared for the invasion?
Yes, Caesar...
...only...
Only what?
Where is Britain?
Where?
There.
Ah, yes, lord, there.
But, eh... there is no enemy.
There is papyrus cane.
- Papyrus cane, Divine Caesar?
- Yes, papyrus.
Don't be so stupid, Chaerea.
Order my army to attack
and destroy that papyrus.
Yes, lord.
After all, we must have some proof
that I conquered Britain.
Kill!
While all of you were
living safely here in Rome...
...your beloved emperor
was risking his life...
...to preserve and
enlarge the Empire.
I've heard rumors...
...that the Senate doesn't believe
that I ever went to Britain.
No. No, lord.
Well I did conquer Britain...
...and I have 100,000
papyrus canes to prove it.
- Hail, Caligula Caesar.
- Hail, Caesar!
- Hail, Caligula, Conqueror!
- Hail. Hail. Hail!
Better be careful,
he's in a strange mood tonight.
Caligula.
They hate you now.
Let them hate me.
So long as they fear me.
They are senators and consuls.
They are important men.
So important that
they approve all I do?
They must be mad.
I don't know what else to do
to provoke them.
Great victory.
In Britain.
And now...
...the bounties captured
during this great campaign.
Fish.
Smoked herring and salmon.
Oysters...
...and beautiful pink pearls.
From the blue seas
and silver rivers of Britain.
Gained from the green forests...
...and golden ponds of Britain.
Wild pheasants, plump geese.
Cowards! Sheep!
Crawl. Crawl. Crawl.
I hate them!
Almighty Caesar says...
...to balance the state budget...
...we shall confiscate
the entire estates...
...of all those who have failed Rome.
Read out your list, Longinus.
Senators Galba,
Aponius, Marcellus,
Antonius, Cassius...
Chaerea.
They have failed me.
Arrest them.
...Lepidus...
...Sextus and Octavius.
Guards. Arrest them.
Almighty Caesar says...
...finish your dinner.
Eat!
It must be done soon.
Watch Chaerea.
Why?
The omens are not good.
Be on your guard.
I think he intends to kill me.
What is amusing, Caesar?
Just a thought.
May I ask what thought?
Is it true that there is a conspiracy
against me, Longinus?
Eh... well, lord... that is... I mean...
It seems there is a secret plot.
A plot is always a secret.
If it's not a secret,
it's not a plot, but a plan.
That is logical, is it not, Claudius?
Even a half-wit can know that
and you're a half-wit.
Half of me is, Caesar.
The situation's gone too far.
He's mocked the gods,
overruled the government...
...and insulted the best families
in Rome.
Yes, the Senate counts for
nothing anymore.
No one is safe from him.
- He's a tyrant.
- But what could we do?
There's only one solution.
- If Caligula were to die...
- It could happen.
You need to sleep.
I think I shall have to
resign myself to living forever.
I hope you do.
I am going bald.
No, you're not.
You've never been able
to face the facts, have you?
The facts?
Yes, my lord.
Can you?
I need some sleep.
I need you.
Psst. Are you ready?
Will you speak your line,
sister Isis?
Long have I wandered
in the land of men...
...in search of you, brother Osiris.
I have been killed
and cut into bits.
You put my pieces together...
...bringing back life...
...with a kiss.
There goes our blood.
It doesn't matter.
It's only a show.
- I can't get it right.
- No, Caesar, not like that.
Hello, precious.
Have you been a good girl?
Don't you think she looks
beautiful in my costume?
- She's even wearing my little boots.
- She's just like her father.
My little...
...boots.
So serious.
I wanted to dress like you today.
I think it will be fun. ((?*)
Password?
Scrotum.
So be it.
I...
...live...
...live.
Hail, Claudius Caesar!
- Hail, Claudius Caesar!
- Hail, Claudius!
- Claudius, hail.
Hail, Claudius Caesar!
Hail!